Welcome, brothers and sisters.
In this program, we're going to discuss the joy of in-person conventions.
But first, here are a few updates.
After nearly 20 years, on April 26, 2023,
the government of Spain approved a historic adjustment to the country's tax exemption law.
This decision confirms that Jehovah's Witnesses are a well-known and respected religion in Spain.
In addition, the adjustment exempts our brothers from having to pay property tax on theocratic facilities in the country.
It also allows individuals in Spain who support the work to obtain a tax deduction on their contributions.
We're very grateful for this positive development.
Also, as reported on JW.org, we're very pleased that on May 16, 2023,
Brother Shamil Hakimoff was released from prison in Tajikistan after fulfilling his prison sentence.
You might recall that he was first detained in February 2019.
He spent over four years in prison for his faith.
He plans to get some much-needed rest and is being helped to receive necessary medical care.
We're very happy for you, Brother Hakimoff.
Your faithful endurance encourages all of us.
Of course, we continue to keep close in mind the over 180 brothers and sisters who are still imprisoned for their faith.
The Apostle Paul wrote at Philippians 1 verse 14.
Now, most of the brothers in the Lord have gained confidence because of my prison bonds,
and they are showing all the more courage to speak the Word of God fearlessly.
Just as first-century Christians were encouraged by Paul's faithful example,
the faith of those imprisoned in our day impels us to share the kingdom good news with Zeal.
But can such faithful ones in prison be sure of Jehovah's blessing and protection?
Isaiah's prophecy highlights what Jehovah promised for his cleansed people.
Note Isaiah chapter 4 verses 5 and 6.
It says,
Jehovah will also create over the whole side of Mount Zion and over the place of her conventions,
a cloud and smoke by day, and a bright flaming fire by night.
For over all the glory there will be a shelter, and there will be a booth for shade by day from the heat,
and for refuge and protection from storms and the rain.
These verses highlight the spiritual protection that Jehovah offered his servants in the past,
and by extension to us today.
How so?
Verse 5 says that Jehovah will create over his people a cloud, smoke, and a bright flaming fire.
These remind us of how Jehovah cared for the Israelites after they left Egypt.
He used a pillar of fire and cloud to protect and to lead them.
No, Jehovah doesn't promise us miraculous physical protection.
Nor does he prevent the heat of persecution or storms of opposition from bearing down on us.
But as verse 6 explains,
He does protect us spiritually,
as if building a booth for shade and for protection from the rainstorm.
What's the point?
Jehovah promises to be with his faithful servants wherever they are.
Even if they're boxed in by four prison walls,
Jehovah is our protector.
His Holy Spirit gives us joy and peace.
No human can tear down the booth of protection that Jehovah builds.
As long as we maintain our integrity, our future is secure.
Did you notice another place where Jehovah's Cloud of Spiritual Protection is?
Verse 5 says it would be over the place of his servants' conventions.
We're very excited that it's convention season once again, this time in person.
We're eager to share in the invitation campaign and thrilled to be together in person for conventions
for the first time since 2019.
Just last week, my wife and I received a letter from a sister
who will soon be attending the regional convention and the Pioneer Service School.
She wrote,
I usually wait to write to you until after the events.
But this year I did not want to delay and letting you know how happy,
how excited, how spiritually blessed I know we will be after each of these special occasions.
How do I know it will be perfect?
Just what we need at each event?
Because of the track record.
Jehovah's Hand is not short.
Not once have we been disappointed or thinking,
I wish for something else.
Thank you.
What an expression of faith.
This certainly is pleasing to our Heavenly Father, Jehovah,
and to His Son, the head of the Christian congregation.
Over the years, convention arrangements have been simplified
so that we can focus more on the spiritual program.
For example, do you recall when meals were served at our conventions?
Arrangements varied globally,
but no doubt you'll enjoy this brief report on how things were done over the years in the United States.
In the United States, providing meals for fellow convention attendees
extends all the way back to the 1890s.
However, the sheer magnitude of the task took on new dimensions in the 1940s
when the size of conventions grew.
Many volunteers were needed to procure, receive, prepare,
and serve three hot meals a day to delegates.
An example of this was the eight-day New World Society Assembly of Jehovah's Witnesses,
held in Yankee Stadium in 1953.
Some 130,000 attended on average each day.
The cafeteria was operated by 4,500 volunteers
with a capacity to provide 30,000 meals per hour.
Although food service volunteers were happy to work in behalf of convention attendees,
they often worked many hours and heard very little or none of the program
and often had to attend a second convention to listen.
So in 1978, food service operations were simplified in many places.
Instead of a cafeteria meal, refreshments stands were used and featured a simplified menu.
This made it possible for the vast majority of food service volunteers
to hear the spiritual program.
Further simplifications were made in 1987 when hot food items were no longer provided,
thus eliminating the need for natural gas, oven trailers, and the like.
For decades, meal tickets were available for purchase and were exchanged for food items.
These tickets were designed so that no change was needed,
thus expediting the purchase of food.
Here's a sample menu.
The menu showed how many tickets were required to purchase each item.
Finally, in 1995, arrangements for food service at conventions were discontinued.
Instead, delegates were encouraged to bring their own food
and enjoy association on location during the noon break.
As a result, we no longer need to wait in line.
We have more time to spend with friends on site
and this arrangement is easier for our older and infirm ones.
We continue to benefit from this simplified arrangement today.
So in order to enjoy association during the noon break,
we encourage everyone to bring a light lunch,
which will also help us to stay awake during the afternoon session.
As we return to in-person conventions,
perhaps we'll feel like those from Eastern Europe
who attended international conventions in Poland in 1989.
That was the first convention ever for most of those delegates,
although many had been in the truth for 30 years or more.
One delegate from the former Soviet Union said,
for many years, we have been waiting for this day.
And now we are here at this international convention.
We find it difficult to grasp all of this
and take it all in. It is like a dream.
It is impossible to express in words everything we have seen and heard.
When we saw the gigantic bowl-shaped stadium full of people
and heard the music, our eyes filled with tears.
And the prayer, while all of us were motionlessly united,
it sent cold shivers down our backs.
It was so solemn and unanimous.
This convention in Warsaw is such a splendid and grand event
that only the new world will be better.
We will always remember these wonderful days.
It is something one cannot forget.
Special thanks and glory be to our creator, Jehovah God.
The wake of December 22, 1989 reported,
the singing at the conventions was noteworthy
as tens of thousands sang in unison in over 20 different languages,
all expressing the same thoughts in a spirit of love and unity.
As mentioned in the May broadcast,
we encourage you to learn the new original song,
it will not be late.
During the pandemic, we missed singing at large conventions.
This year, to quote Psalm 7, verse 17,
will again sing praises to the name of Jehovah the Most High
at our conventions.
I still remember attending conventions in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
when I was a kid.
It was thrilling to hear Kingdom Melodies echoing
in a large stadium that had been converted into a house of worship.
Many of you will remember this stirring Kingdom Melody from 1981.
Do you have similar memories?
If you were baptized during the pandemic,
then this year's convention will likely be your first in person.
You too will form memories that will last a lifetime.
That's how many of our brothers and sisters felt
when they recently attended the exercise patience convention.
We're here at the Newburg, New York,
exercise patience convention.
This is my first convention as a baptized witness.
It's a joy to be with our family today
and get the spiritual food that we need.
It's clear that Jehovah's people haven't forgotten how to laugh
and hug each other, love each other.
Being in person, being able to really share everybody singing together,
talking with everybody in person, you can't beat it.
The singing is beautiful.
When we were doing it on the Zoom, you don't hear the voices,
so to see all the voices singing together, the harmony,
it's just you feel it more.
The theme exercise patience, it's a great theme
because that's something that we don't have today in this world.
It seems like what's presented matches exactly what we're dealing with in our lives
and what we see happening in the world.
It's phenomenal the way that you could follow along
and how it makes the Bible so much easier to understand.
All the videos and meeting new friends
and seeing even my old friends that I haven't seen in a while.
I love that you can sit and have a meal with someone you've never met before
and you have something in common, you can talk about the program
and by the end of the meal, you've become great friends.
To get our family ready for a convention is a lot of work.
It has a mom, but conventions draw us closer as families
because we're all worshiping Jehovah together.
For someone that's never been to a convention before,
I tell them that the experience is going to change their life.
They're going to see and feel a different type of love
that they've probably never felt before.
Now being here together and seeing them in person, it's a different field.
It's so beautiful. You get together with so many people, so loving.
It's almost like a taste of the paradise right here right now.
You are going to love this year's convention.
Did any of the photos in our update make you think about
special conventions? When are the next ones planned?
We're pleased to inform you that 15 special conventions
in countries around the world are being planned for 2024.
The locations and dates will be announced in the coming months.
So what have we discussed in this update?
We're reminded that Jehovah is our protector.
But this doesn't mean that we'll have a problem-free life
in this system of things.
However, when we face challenges, we know that Jehovah is with us.
He protects us spiritually and provides the power beyond what is normal
so we can endure trials faithfully.
And we're very excited for our exercise patience, regional conventions.
May Jehovah bless the invitation campaign
and your efforts to attend all three days in person.
As Paul wrote to Timothy in his first letter, chapter 1, verse 2,
may you have undeserved kindness and mercy and peace
from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
We love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.